 

United States Court of Appeals 

for the Federal Circuit 

______________________ 

JASON CARL KENNEDY, 

Plaintiff-Appellant 

JASON CARL KENNEDY, Denver, CO, argued pro se. 

 
 
  WILLIAM  JAMES  GRIMALDI,  Commercial  Litigation 
Branch,  Civil  Division,  United  States  Department  of 
Justice,  Washington,  DC,  argued  for  defendant-appellee. 
Also represented by REGINALD T. BLADES, JR., ROBERT E. 
KIRSCHMAN, JR., BENJAMIN C. MIZER. 

______________________ 

Before NEWMAN, CLEVENGER, and DYK, Circuit Judges. 
Opinion for the court filed by Circuit Judge CLEVENGER. 

UNITED STATES, 
Defendant-Appellee 

______________________ 

2016-1512 

______________________ 

______________________ 

Decided: January 17, 2017 
______________________ 

Appeal  from  the  United  States  Court  of  Federal 
Claims  in  No.  1:13-cv-00165-MMS,  Judge  Margaret  M. 
Sweeney. 

 

 
v. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

2 

 

  KENNEDY v. US 

Opinion  concurring  in  part,  dissenting  in  part  filed  by 
Circuit Judge NEWMAN. 
CLEVENGER, Circuit Judge. 

Jason  Carl  Kennedy  was  disenrolled  from  the  Navy 
Reserve  Officer  Training  Corps  (NROTC)  program  at 
George  Washington  University  (GWU)  in  Washington, 
DC, after he failed to complete the required course at the 
Officer  Candidate  School  (OCS)  in  Quantico,  VA.    Mr. 
Kennedy  challenged  his  disenrollment  by  suit  in  the 
United States Court of Federal Claims.  As Mr. Kennedy’s 
claim for monetary relief involved a challenge to his Navy 
records, the Court of Federal Claims directed the case to 
the  Board  for  Correction  of  Naval  Records  (BCNR),  a 
civilian body that exists to make necessary corrections in 
Naval  Records.    The  BCNR  concluded,  with  affirmation 
from  the  Secretary  of  the  Navy,  that  Mr.  Kennedy’s 
disenrollment must stand.  Upon return from the BCNR, 
the  Court  of  Federal  Claims  held  that  Mr.  Kennedy’s 
disenrollment was lawful and that Mr. Kennedy’s claims 
for monetary relief thus lacked merit.  Kennedy v. United 
States,  124  Fed.  Cl.  309  (Nov.  30,  2015).    Mr.  Kennedy 
timely appealed  to  this  court.    For  the  reasons  set  forth 
below, we reverse.   

I 

Mr.  Kennedy  enrolled  as  an  undergraduate  at  GWU 
in August of 2003.  He applied for an NROTC scholarship 
(which would cover his tuition and other education related 
costs) in February of 2004, during the spring term of his 
freshman year.  On March 16, 2005, in the spring term of 
his sophomore year, he was awarded a three year NROTC 
scholarship.    Pursuant  to  the  scholarship,  Mr.  Kennedy 
agreed to complete satisfactorily his college education and 
any  educational  requirements  imposed  on  him  by  the 
Navy and the Marine Corps.  Among such requirements 
was successful completion of a six week term at the OCS 
in  Quantico,  VA,  a  requirement  which  is  not  waivable.  

KENNEDY v. US 

3 

The  scholarship  provided  that  if  Mr.  Kennedy  failed  to 
complete  the  educational  requirements,  including  the 
military  requirements,  he  could  be  disenrolled  and  be-
come liable to reimburse the United States for the educa-
tional costs expended on his behalf.  

Beginning in May of 2005, Mr. Kennedy suffered emo-
tional,  physical  and  sexual  abuse  by  a  family  member, 
and as a result he began to act abnormally.  In November 
of 2005, in the fall of his junior year, he was required to go 
to  the  GWU  Center  Clinic  for  observation,  after  having 
been  expelled  from  campus  housing  following  a  physical 
altercation  with  his  roommate  and  an  attempt  to  throw 
himself  out  of  a  dormitory  room  window.    The  GWU 
Hospital diagnosed Mr. Kennedy with Adjustment Disor-
der, and he attended six therapy sessions thereafter.  

At the end of May in the spring term of his junior year 
in college, Mr. Kennedy went to Quantico to attend OCS.  
On two occasions at Quantico, Mr. Kennedy lost control of 
his  emotions,  and  sought  counsel  from  the  chaplain  on 
numerous occasions.   In the third week at Quantico, his 
platoon  commander  recommended  that  Mr.  Kennedy  be 
disenrolled from OCS as emotionally unstable.  His com-
pany  commander  noted  that  Mr.  Kennedy  “breaks  down 
in tears when faced with stress or responsibility.”  Kenne-
dy, 124 Fed. Cl. at 315; J.A. 1138.  Mr. Kennedy’s compa-
ny 
recommended 
disenrollment without opportunity to reapply, due to their 
concerns about Mr. Kennedy’s ability to handle himself in 
front of Marines and in combat.  A Commanding Officer’s 
Board was convened on June 22, 2006, and it disenrolled 
Mr. Kennedy from OCS without opportunity to return.   

commanders 

and 

battalion 

On  August  7,  2006,  the  commanding  officer  of  the 
GWU NROTC unit informed Mr. Kennedy that a Perfor-
mance Review Board (PRB) would be convened on August 
17, 2016, to evaluate his suitability for continuing in the 
NROTC  program.    The  commanding  officer  told  Mr. 

4 

 

  KENNEDY v. US 

Kennedy  of  his  right  to  appear  before  the  PRB  and  ad-
vised him to do so, explaining that the PRB could recom-
mend his disenrollment from the NROTC Program, based 
on  his  disenrollment  from  OCS  without  opportunity  to 
return. 

Mr. Kennedy’s NROTC advisor, Captain Ward, sent a 
memorandum to the PRB, recommending Mr. Kennedy’s 
disenrollment from the NROTC program, but without the 
additional  penalty  of  reimbursement  of  the  sums  the 
government  had  already  expended  for  Mr.  Kennedy’s 
education  at  GWU.    On  August  8,  2006,  Captain  Ward 
sent Mr. Kennedy an email message about the upcoming 
PRB,  in  which  he  commented  as  follows:  “Although  the 
paper  work  says  there  will  be  a  formal  board,  we  won’t 
have one due to the CO [Commanding Officer], OCS not 
allowing your return.  Your case is open and shut – noth-
ing disputable about it.  You will see where I am recom-
mending you not be responsible for reimbursement.”  J.A. 
1144. 

Whether  the  three  member  PRB  physically  met  on 
August  17  is  unclear,  but  the  PRB  members  did  sign  a 
report  under  that  date  recommending  disenrollment 
without  the  additional  penalty  of  reimbursement.    The 
report  indicated  that  Mr.  Kennedy  was  “not  present.”  
J.A.  1145.    The  PRB  recommendation  went  to  the  com-
manding  officer  of  the  GWU  NROTC  Unit,  who  recom-
mended  disenrollment,  but  with  recoupment  of  costs 
already expended by the government.  That recommenda-
tion went further up the Marine Corps chain of command 
to the Recruiting Command and finally to the Secretary of 
the  Navy’s  authorized  representative  (the  Assistant 
Secretary of the Navy for Manpower and Reserve Affairs).  
All  along  the  chain  of  command,  the  reason  for  the  rec-
ommendation  of  disenrollment  and  recoupment  of  costs 
was the failure to complete OCS.  On February 16, 2007, 
the Assistant Secretary approved the recommendation of 
disenrollment with recoupment of $50,675 of educational 

KENNEDY v. US 

5 

assistance Mr. Kennedy had received. Shortly thereafter, 
on  March  16,  2007,  the  Commanding  General  of  the 
Marine  Corps  Recruiting  Command  executed  a  letter  to 
the  GWU  NROTC  Unit  ordering  that  Mr.  Kennedy  be 
disenrolled from the Unit and separated from the Marine 
Corps. 

After graduation from GWU in May of 2007, Mr. Ken-
nedy  attended  and  graduated  from  law  school  and  was 
admitted to the bar of the State of Colorado. 

Thereafter,  Mr.  Kennedy  brought  suit  in  the  United 
States  Court  of  Federal  Claims,  as  noted  above.    His 
amended complaint set forth several causes of action, in 
which  he  sought  relief  from  the  recoupment  obligation 
that  he  was  fulfilling,  and  sought  compensation  for  the 
costs  of  his  GWU  education  that  were  not  paid  by  the 
government.    First,  the  government  had  not  paid  the 
tuition  for  the  first  semester  of  his  sophomore  year  (the 
semester before the award of his scholarship).  Second, it 
had  not  paid  for  his  senior  year  (Fall  2006  and  Spring 
2007),  due  to  his  disenrollment  by  then  from  OCS,  thus 
breaching his obligation under the scholarship agreement.  
Mr.  Kennedy  stopped  receiving  scholarship  benefit  pay-
ments in August of 2006.  His complaint alleged breach of 
contract  and  also  violations  of  law  and  regulations  in 
connection  with  his  disenrollment  from  the  NROTC 
program. 

The  United  States  filed  a  motion  on  December  20, 
2013, to send the case to the BCNR to enable the BCNR 
to  consider  Mr.  Kennedy’s  complaint  and  requests  for 
relief, and to correct  his Navy records if necessary.  Mr. 
Kennedy  opposed  the  motion,  but  the  court  held  that  it 
had discretion to hear the claims in the first instance or to 
send  the  case  to  the  BCNR,  and  thought  it  prudent  to 
afford  Mr.  Kennedy  the  opportunity  to  be  heard  first  by 
the  BCNR.    Accordingly,  the  court  sent  the  case  to  the 
BCNR on January 23, 2014, ordering the BCNR to let Mr. 

6 

 

  KENNEDY v. US 

Kennedy  respond  to  the  Navy’s  disenrollment  decision 
and  to  consider  whether  reimbursement  of  scholarship 
tuition is appropriate if disenrollment is sustained. 

In  due  course,  Mr.  Kennedy  filed  a  thirteen-count 
statement,  accompanied  by  his  court  complaint,  at  the 
BCNR.    Mr.  Kennedy  sought  correction  of  his  Naval 
record in several specific regards.  His fundamental claim 
was that he was improperly disenrolled from the NROTC 
program.  To correct that asserted error, he asked that his 
record  be  corrected  to  delete  all  references  to  his  disen-
rollment  and  to  show  that  he  could  reapply  to  OCS.  
Further,  he  sought  a  corrected  record  showing  that  he 
was retained in the NROTC program up to his graduation 
day, that he was entitled to scholarship benefits for three 
years, and that he should be relieved of any obligation to 
reimburse  the  government  for  educational  benefits  re-
ceived. 

The BNCR forwarded Mr. Kennedy’s request for cor-
rection  to  the  Naval  Service  Training  Command  for  an 
advisory opinion.  On July 7, 2014, the advisory opinion 
concluded  that  Mr.  Kennedy’s  disenrollment  was  proper 
and  that  the  obligation  to  repay  his  scholarship  monies 
was  not  unreasonable.    On  October  15, 2014,  the  BCNR 
issued its decision.  The BCNR agreed with the advisory 
opinion in all regards but one: the BCNR concluded that 
Mr. Kennedy had been denied the opportunity to appear 
before the August 17, 2006 PRB, and that this violation of 
his rights warranted some relief for Mr. Kennedy, namely 
that he be relieved from reimbursing the government for 
the  three  semesters  worth  of  financial  aid  that  he  had 
received  and  be  repaid  for  the  amount  the  government 
had  already  recouped.    The  BCNR  thus  ordered  the 
correction of Mr. Kennedy’s Navy records to show that the 
$50,567.00  of  benefits  paid  should  not  be  recouped  and 
that  he  should  be  repaid  the  sums  he  had  already  re-
turned.    The  Assistant  Secretary  of  the  Navy  for  Man-

KENNEDY v. US 

7 

power  and  Reserve  Affairs  reviewed  and  approved  the 
BCNR decision. 

Upon return to the Court of Federal Claims, the court 
entertained joint motions for judgment on the administra-
tive  record,  and  the  government’s  motion  to  dismiss  the 
case.    Mr.  Kennedy’s  amended  complaint  pitched  five 
counts, all seeking money damages.  His first three con-
tract-based claims are for “full benefits under the NROTC 
Scholarship  Service  Agreement,”  arguably  entitling  him 
to all funds that he had paid back, and to funds he did not 
receive  for  his  first  sophomore  semester  and  his  two 
senior year semesters.  His fourth and fifth claims alleged 
that  his  disenrollment  violated  money  mandating  stat-
utes, entitling him to monetary relief. 

II 

We  exercise 

jurisdiction  pursuant  to  28  U.S.C. 
§ 1295(a)(3).  We review the legal conclusions of the Court 
of  Federal  Claims  de  novo.    Renda  Marine,  Inc.  v.  U.S., 
509  F.3d  1372,  1378  (Fed.  Cir.  2007).    We  review  its 
factual findings for clear error.  Id.  

The Court of Federal Claims found that it lacked ju-
risdiction to entertain Mr. Kennedy’s first three contract-
based claims.  Mr. Kennedy does not appeal that ruling, 
and we thus need not consider those claims. 

For purposes of analysis under the applicable six-year 
statute  of  limitations  in  28  U.S.C.  §  2501,  the  Court  of 
Federal Claims separated Mr. Kennedy’s claim regarding 
his  first  sophomore  semester  from  his  claim  for  the  two 
semesters  of  his  senior  year.    Regarding  the  former,  the 
Court of Federal Claims held that claim to have accrued 
in March of 2005, after Mr. Kennedy executed his enlist-
ment  agreement  but  had  not  received  payment  for  the 
previous  semester.    Because  this  claim  predates  and  is 
unrelated to Mr. Kennedy’s later disenrollment, the Court 
of  Federal  Claims  held  it  time-barred  by  the  six-year 

8 

 

  KENNEDY v. US 

statute  of  limitations,  as  Mr.  Kennedy  only  filed  his 
complaint on March 5, 2013.  We agree that Mr. Kenne-
dy’s  claim  regarding the  first  semester of his  sophomore 
year is time-barred. 

As to Mr. Kennedy’s fourth and fifth claims based on 
the alleged wrongful disenrollment, the Court of Federal 
Claims found these claims timely asserted, and noted that 
the BCNR had already provided Mr. Kennedy with relief 
concerning  scholarship  benefits  for  the  spring  2005  se-
mester and the 2005–2006 academic year, when it upset 
the recoupment order and ordered reimbursement of the 
sums  he  had  already  paid  back.    The  Court  of  Federal 
Claims  thus  focused  on  Mr.  Kennedy’s  remaining  mone-
tary claims for his senior academic year. 

To  the  extent  Mr.  Kennedy’s  remaining  claims  de-
pended  on  adjudication  of  the  merits  of  the  Navy’s  deci-
sion to disenroll Mr. Kennedy from OCS and the NROTC 
program, the Court of Federal Claims correctly held that 
the  adjudication  of  those  merits  were  not  justiciable, 
because the decision “pertained to who should be permit-
ted to serve in the Marine Corps, [which is] solely within 
the province of the Navy.”  Kennedy, 124 Fed. Cl. at 329.  
See Heisig v. United States, 719 F.2d 1153, 1156 (Fed. Cir. 
1983); Sargisson v. United States, 913 F.2d. 918, 922 (Fed. 
Cir. 1990).  There remained, however, three arguments by 
Mr.  Kennedy  in  support  of  his  claim  for  monetary  relief 
for  his  senior  academic  year.    Because  those  arguments 
questioned  whether  a  statute  or  regulation  had  been 
violated  in  connection  with  his  disenrollment  from 
NROTC,  the  Court  of  Federal  Claims  properly  asserted 
jurisdiction over, and decided, those arguments.   

We agree with the Court of Federal Claims that Mr. 
Kennedy’s  fourth  and  fifth  claims  based  on  the  alleged 
disenrollment  are  not  time  barred.  A  claim  based  on  an 
alleged  unlawful  discharge  accrues  on  the  date  of  dis-
charge.    See,  e.g.,  Hurick  v.  Lehman,  782  F.2d  984,  986 

KENNEDY v. US 

9 

(Fed. Cir. 1986).  Thus, Mr. Kennedy’s claims accrued on 
March 16, 2007, and he filed his complaint within the six-
year statute of limitations. 

First,  Mr.  Kennedy  argued  that  the  Navy  failed  to 
conduct  a  required  medical  examination  before  disenrol-
ling  him,  thus  violating  statutory  and  regulatory  rights 
and  consequently  undermining  the  legitimacy  of  his 
disenrollment.  Second, he argued that the Navy failed to 
convene  a  PRB  at  the  initiation  of  his  disenrollment 
process, thus violating his rights and requiring his rein-
statement.  Third, he argued that he had been denied the 
right to appear before the August 17 PRB, again with the 
effect  of  undermining  the  legality  of  his  disenrollment.  
The Court of Federal Claims concluded that each of these 
arguments lacked merit.  As explained below, we agree on 
the first two issues, but not the third. 

It  is  undisputed  that  Mr.  Kennedy  did  not  have  a 
medical  examination  in  connection  with  his  disenroll-
ment.    The  statute  and  regulation  on  which  he  relies  to 
show  entitlement  to  a  medical  examination,  10  U.S.C. 
§ 2107(j) and DoDI 1215.08, sec. 6.10.1, do not apply to his 
case.  As the Court of Federal Claims observed, the stat-
ute  provides  that  payment  of  financial  assistance  under 
the NROTC program may be suspended for health-related 
incapacity  only  in  accordance  with  promulgated  regula-
tions.  The pertinent regulation specifies that such assis-
tance  may  be  suspended  when  an  involuntary  medical 
leave  of  absence  from  the  program  is  being  considered, 
and in such circumstances, a medical examination of the 
student in question is required.  In short, the statute and 
regulation  exist  to  provide  medical  examinations  in  the 
instances  in  which  the  government  wishes  to  impose  an 
involuntary medical leave of absence.  Such is not the case 
here.  Mr. Kennedy was not being considered for a leave of 
absence.  Mr. Kennedy was deemed unqualified to serve 
as  an  officer  in  the  Marine  Corps  and  thus  was  disen-
rolled from the NROTC program. 

10 

 

  KENNEDY v. US 

Regarding Mr. Kennedy’s second argument, the Court 
of  Federal  Claims  correctly  found  that  the  record  does 
show that a PRB was convened, albeit without a physical 
meeting, and resulted in a formal recommendation up the 
chain of command.  Indeed, Mr. Kennedy was informed of 
the  PRB’s  action  and  was  afforded  the  opportunity  to 
respond  to  the  PRB  decision.    Mr.  Kennedy  does  not 
challenge this holding. 

Mr. Kennedy’s third argument begins with the effect 
of Captain Ward’s August 8 email.  The Court of Federal 
Claims concluded that email deprived Mr. Kennedy of his 
opportunity to appear in person before the PRB.  Howev-
er, the Court of Federal Claims held that this deprivation 
“had no effect on [Mr. Kennedy’s] disenrollment from the 
NROTC.”  Kennedy, 124 Fed. Cl. at 334.  The court rea-
soned  that  in  accordance  with  the  pertinent  regulations, 
Mr.  Kennedy  was  required  to  complete  OCS  in  order  to 
qualify  for  an  officer’s  commission  upon  graduation.  
Because the failure to complete OCS undermines a candi-
date’s  qualifications  for  a  commission,  and  because  the 
NROTC scholarship was for such a commission, the court 
concluded that Mr. Kennedy’s disenrollment was inevita-
ble.    With  the  opportunity  for  successful  completion  of 
OSC barred to Mr. Kennedy, the court surmised that Mr. 
Kennedy’s  appearance  before  the  PRB  could  not  have 
prevented his disenrollment. 

The court’s analysis turns on whether the decision by 
the  Commanding  Officer’s  Board  at  Quantico,  denying 
Mr. Kennedy the opportunity to return, was final, i.e., not 
subject to reversal by a recommendation by a PRB, or the 
BCNR, and a decision by  the Secretary of the Navy.  If 
the  authority  to  grant  admission  to  OCS  is  finally  dele-
gated  to  the  Commanding  Officer’s  Board  at  Quantico, 
then Mr. Kennedy’s disenrollment was inevitable.  But if 
the Quantico authority over admission is not so final, Mr. 
Kennedy’s disenrollment was not inevitable. 

KENNEDY v. US 

11 

The initial briefing in this appeal did not answer the 
question concerning authority over admission to OCS.  We 
asked the parties for supplemental briefing on the issue, 
and the supplemental briefs were also inconclusive.  The 
issue, however, was clearly resolved at oral argument. 

For  disenrollment  cases  involving  either  recoupment 
or  students  obligated  to  active  service  (in  this  case,  Mr. 
Kennedy satisfies both conditions), “SECNAV [the Secre-
tary of the Navy] makes the final decision.”  CNETINST 
1553.12G, § 315(a).  Mr. Kennedy argued that this provi-
sion  means  that  the  Secretary,  not  the  Commanding 
Officer’s Board at Quantico, has the final say on who may 
attend OCS.  In other words, whatever authority has been 
delegated  to  that  Board,  while  likely  of  great  weight,  is 
not final.  In response to the question whether the Secre-
tary  could  overrule  Quantico  on  admissions  to  OCS,  the 
government  responded,  “yes.”    Oral  Argument  (Oct.  3, 
2016) at 22:09–22:38. 

At  oral  argument,  Mr.  Kennedy  repeated  his  argu-
ment  that  the  due  process  violation  deprived  him  of  the 
opportunity to make his case in person to the PRB that he 
be given another chance at OCS.  Although the command 
at Quantico at the time stated that he should not have the 
opportunity  to  return,  Mr.  Kennedy  points  out  that  his 
platoon  commander  opined  that  he  “needs  to  resolve  his 
personal  issues  in  a  satisfactory  manner  and  return  to 
OCS  once  they  are  resolved.”    J.A.  1137.    Further,  Mr. 
Kennedy’s company commander opined that “[h]e may be 
capable of returning to OCS at a later date if he could pull 
himself  together.”    J.A.  1138.    At  oral  argument,  the 
government conceded that, had Mr. Kennedy appeared in 
person before the August 17, 2006 PRB, it is possible that 
the PRB could have awarded him greater relief than the 
waiver  of  tuition  recoupment  that  it  did  recommend.  
According  to  the  government,  such  greater  relief  could 
have  included  further  tuition  payments,  and  if  the  PRB 
denied  his  request  to  return  to  OCS,  the  government 

12 

 

  KENNEDY v. US 

agreed that Mr. Kennedy could have pursued that denial 
up  the  chain  of  command  all  the  way  to  the  Secretary.  
The government agreed that the Secretary is authorized 
and not estopped to instruct Quantico to admit a student 
to OCS. 

CONCLUSION 

Given  the  concession  by  the  government  that  Mr. 
Kennedy’s due process rights had been violated when he 
was dissuaded from attending his PRB, and its concession 
that the error was not harmless, it is clear that the Court 
of Federal Claims erred in concluding that Mr. Kennedy’s 
disenrollment  was  inevitable  because  Quantico  deemed 
him unfit to return.  On this limited point, the Court of 
Federal Claims must be reversed. 

At  oral  argument,  the  parties  agreed  that  it  is  not 
possible  to  reconvene  the  PRB  that  met  on  August  17, 
2016, but it is possible for the BCNR to hear the case Mr. 
Kennedy would have made to the PRB, and to recommend 
to the Secretary that Mr. Kennedy receive further relief.  
The proper course therefore is for this court to reverse the 
judgment that the violation of Mr. Kennedy’s due process 
rights was harmless and remand the case to the Court of 
Federal Claims for it promptly to direct the case again to 
the  BCNR,  with  instructions  that  the  BCNR  promptly 
consider Mr. Kennedy’s case and recommend such further 
relief for him it deems appropriate.   
REVERSED 

COSTS 

Costs to Mr. Kennedy. 

United States Court of Appeals 

for the Federal Circuit 

______________________ 

JASON CARL KENNEDY, 

Plaintiff-Appellant 

 

 
v. 
 

 

 

UNITED STATES, 
Defendant-Appellee 

______________________ 

2016-1512 

______________________ 

 
Appeal  from  the  United  States  Court  of  Federal 
Claims  in  No.  1:13-cv-00165-MMS,  Judge  Margaret  M. 
Sweeney. 

______________________ 

NEWMAN, Circuit Judge, concurring in part, dissenting in 
part. 

I agree that the Court of Federal Claims correctly sus-
tained  the  holding  of  the  Board  for  Correction  of  Naval 
Records  (BCNR)  that  Mr.  Kennedy  is  not  required  to 
reimburse the government for the tuition payments made 
to George Washington University on his behalf while he 
was  enrolled  in  the  Naval  Reserve  Officers  Training 
Corps (NROTC), and that the reimbursement that he has 
paid should be returned.   

However,  I  do  not  join  the  court’s  decision  ordering 
the BCNR, on constitutional and harmful error grounds, 
to  conduct  further  review  to  “possibly”  recommend  “fur-

2 

 

  KENNEDY v. US 

ther relief,” Maj. Op. at 12.  Such possible relief is unde-
fined,  and  the  BCNR  and  the  courts  have  responded  to 
any  justiciable issues  raised  by  Mr.  Kennedy.    Mr.  Ken-
nedy  is  not  entitled  to  receive  from  the  government  the 
tuition he paid before and after his period of enrollment in 
the NROTC program. 

The  decision  to  disenroll  Mr.  Kennedy  from  the 
NROTC  program  was  a  necessary  consequence  of  his 
failure to complete the required Officer Candidate School 
program at Quantico.  CNETIST 1553, 12G, ¶ 501(e).  Mr. 
Kennedy did not request reversal of the Navy’s fitness-to-
serve determination, which was endorsed by three levels 
of  commanders  at  Quantico  and  made  after  a  hearing 
before the Commanding Officer’s Board.1  The courts lack 
competence to revisit that fitness-to-serve determination.  
See  Gilligan  v.  Morgan,  413  U.S.  1,  10  (1973)  (“[I]t  is 
difficult to conceive of an area of governmental activity in 
which the courts have less competence” than “decisions as 
to  the  composition,  training,  equipping,  and  control  of  a 
military force”). 

                                            
1   The Secretary of the Navy has delegated NROTC 
training  to  the  Chief  of  Naval  Education  and  Training 
(CNET).    CNETINST  1553,  12G,  ¶  102(c).    CNET  dele-
gates  authority  over  Marine  Corps  Option  scholarship 
students  to  the  Marine  Corps  Recruiting  Command 
(MCRC).    CNETINST  1553,  12G,  ¶  502(a).    All  NROTC 
students must  

undergo a 6-week training and evaluation period 
at  Officer  Candidate  School,  Marine  Corps  Com-
bat Development Center, Quantico, Virginia.  This 
requirement  for  completion  of  Marine  Corps 
summer training will not be waived. 

CNETIST 1553, 12G, ¶ 502(c) (underline in original). 

KENNEDY v. US 

3 

The  record  documents  instances  of  Mr.  Kennedy’s 
mental  instability,  including  expulsion  from  campus 
housing  in  November  2005  after  an  altercation  with  his 
roommate,  an  attempt  to  fling  himself  out  of  a  window, 
and  psychological  counseling.    J.A.  1131.    At  Officer 
Candidate School, the record documents several instances 
of  Mr.  Kennedy’s  breaking  into  tears  during  training.  
Following reports by his platoon, company, and battalion 
commanders  of  emotional  instability,  Mr.  Kennedy  ap-
peared before a Commanding Officer’s Board at Quantico 
on  June  22,  2006.    The  record  contains  the  handwritten 
notes of the Commanding Officer, including:  

3) You have demonstrated you can’t remain calm.  
My question is, do I allow you to come back? 
4) Cand[idate] isn’t having problems w/ OCS but 
w/ family 
5) What is the issue? 
6) Cand[idate] needs to work it out @ home 
7) Can it be fixed? 
8) Cand[idate] doesn’t know. 
10) Ok then I’m going to Disenroll you & not allow 
you to reapply 

J.A. 1139.  The D.C. Circuit, considering a constitutional 
question  raised  by  disenrollment from  Officer  Candidate 
School, stated that: 

The  district  court  properly  granted  summary 
judgment  on  appellant’s  claim  that  his  disenroll-
ment  from  Officer  Candidate  School  denied  him 
due process because there is no property or liberty 
interest  in  a  military  promotion  per  se.  Nor  has 
appellant pointed to any statute or regulation lim-
iting  the  Navy’s  discretion  to  disenroll  an  OCS 
trainee. 

Yamashita v. England, No. 02-5176, 2002 WL 31898182, 
at *1 (D.C. Cir. Dec. 23, 2002) (internal citations omitted). 

4 

 

  KENNEDY v. US 

Mr.  Kennedy  did  not  dispute  his  dismissal  from  Of-
ficer  Candidate  School,  but  now  argues  that  he  was 
denied  due  process  in  his  dismissal  from  the  NROTC 
program  because  he  did  not  have  the  opportunity  to 
appear  before  the  Performance  Review  Board  when  it 
considered  disenrollment.    My  colleagues  hold  that  the 
disenrollment  recommendation  of  the  Performance  Re-
view  Board,  made  in  view  of  his  discharge  from  Officer 
Candidate  School  without  permission  to  reapply,  since 
made without Mr. Kennedy’s presence, was harmful error 
warranting judicial intervention.  The record shows that 
the  disenrollment  recommendation  was  adopted  by  the 
commanding  officer  of  the  NROTC,  who  made  his  own 
recommendations, which were then reviewed by the Chief 
of  Naval  Education  and  Training,  then  by  the  Naval 
Service  Training  Command,  then  by  the  Marine  Corps 
Recruiting  Command,  then  forwarded  to  the  Assistant 
Secretary of the Navy for Manpower and Reserve Affairs. 
This  court  has  recognized  that  “judicial  deference  to 
administrative  decisions  of  fitness  for  duty  of  service 
members  is  and  of  right  should  be  the  norm.”    Maier  v. 
Orr, 754 F.2d 973, 984 (Fed. Cir. 1985). 

The record also shows that Mr. Kennedy agreed that 
he  was  not  then  suited  for  Marine  leadership.    In  his 
written  response  to  the  NROTC  commanding  officer’s 
disenrollment recommendation, Mr. Kennedy wrote: 

I still want to serve my country, but I am unable 
due to lost mental stability, through no fault of my 
own, and thus my ability to serve my country. 

J.A. 1154.  Although Mr. Kennedy now requests that his 
Naval records be changed to show that he completed the 
full NROTC program, according to the record Mr. Kenne-
dy did not request reinstatement in the NROTC, and the 
BCNR declined to change his Naval records.  See Dodson 
v.  United  States,  988  F.2d  1199,  1204  (Fed.  Cir.  1993) 

KENNEDY v. US 

5 

(“The  military is  entitled  to  substantial  deference  in  the 
governance of its affairs.”). 

Although my colleagues recognize that the decision of 
whether Mr. Kennedy “should be permitted to serve in the 
Marine Corps [is] solely within the province of the Navy,” 
Heisig  v.  United  States,  719  F.2d  1153,  1156  (Fed.  Cir. 
1983), the court’s remand for the BCNR now to “hear the 
case Mr. Kennedy would have made to the PRB,” Maj. Op. 
at 12, is on the premise that the Navy’s procedures that 
led  to  his  disenrollment  were  subject  to  major  flaw.    I 
cannot  agree.    See  Orloff  v.  Willoughby,  345  U.S.  83, 93 
(“[J]udges are not given the task of running the Army.”). 

I discern no basis for further proceedings in the Court 
of Federal Claims and the Board for Correction of Naval 
Records.    Thus  I  respectfully  dissent  from  the  court’s 
remand action. 

