 

NOTE:  This disposition is nonprecedential. 

United States Court of Appeals 

for the Federal Circuit 

______________________ 

ZHEJIANG MEDICINE CO., LTD., ZMC-USA L.L.C., 

Plaintiffs-Appellees 

 
v. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

KANEKA CORPORATION, 

Defendant-Appellant 
______________________ 

2016-1390 

______________________ 

Appeal from the United States District Court for the 
Southern  District  of  Texas  in  No.  4:11-cv-01052,  Magis-
trate Judge Mary Milloy. 

______________________ 

Decided:  January 23, 2017 

______________________ 

   BRIAN  ROSENTHAL,  Mayer  Brown  LLP,  Washington, 
DC,  argued  for  plaintiffs-appellees.  Also  represented  by 
PAUL  WHITFIELD  HUGHES,  GARY  HNATH;  CHARLES 
STEPHEN KELLEY, TRENTON MENNING, Houston, TX. 
 
  KEITH  D.  NOWAK,  Carter  Ledyard  &  Milburn  LLP, 
New  York,  NY,  argued  for  defendant-appellant.  Also 
represented by WILLIAM F. SONDERICKER; ROBERT MCGEE 
BOWICK, JR., Raley & Bowick, LLP, Houston, TX. 

______________________ 

 
2 

  ZHEJIANG MEDICINE CO., LTD. v. KANEKA CORPORATION 

Before LOURIE, MOORE, and O’MALLEY, Circuit Judges. 

 

MOORE, Circuit Judge. 
  Kaneka  Corporation  (“Kaneka”)  appeals  from  the 
Southern District of Texas’ summary judgment of nonin-
fringement  of  all  asserted  claims  of  U.S.  Patent 
No. 7,910,340  (“the  ’340 patent”).    For  the  reasons  dis-
cussed below, we vacate and remand. 
BACKGROUND 

 
The ’340 patent is directed to an industrial process for 
producing oxidized coenzyme Q10 (“CoQ10”), an antioxidant 
used in health supplements.  Kaneka brought suit against 
Zhejiang  Medicine  Co.,  Ltd.  and  ZMC-USA  LLC  (collec-
tively,  “ZMC”),  asserting  their  manufacturing  processes 
infringe one or more claims of the ’340 patent.  The dis-
pute  centers  on  the  claims’  requirement  of  “oxidizing” 
reduced CoQ10, as recited in the two independent claims 
at  issue,  22  and  33.1    The  district  court  originally  con-
strued  the  term  “oxidizing”  to  have  its  ordinary  and 
customary  meaning,  rejecting  Kaneka’s  argument  that 
the  “oxidizing”  term  requires  “increasing  the  rate”  of 
oxidizing  reduced  CoQ10.    Both  parties  submitted  expert 
reports  opining  on  whether  ZMC’s  processes  satisfy  the 
“oxidizing”  limitation  under  the  district  court’s  construc-
tion. 
  Meanwhile, in a separate appeal concerning the same 
patent,  a  panel  of  this  court  construed  the  term  “oxidiz-
ing” to mean “some action resulting in oxidation.”  Kaneka 

                                            
1   Claim 22  requires  “oxidizing  thus-obtained  re-
duced  coenzyme  Q10  to  oxidized  coenzyme  Q10”  and 
claim 33  requires  “oxidizing  the  extracted  reduced  coen-
zyme Q10 to oxidized coenzyme Q10.” 

ZHEJIANG MEDICINE CO., LTD. v. KANEKA CORPORATION 

3 

Corp.  v.  Xiamen  Kingdomway  Grp.  Co.,  790  F.3d  1298, 
1307  (Fed.  Cir.  2015).    Approximately  two  weeks  after 
Kingdomway  issued,  the  district  court  held  a  status 
conference  to  address  the  impact  of  the  Kingdomway 
construction  on  the  proceedings.    At  the  conference, 
Kaneka  stated  that  its  expert,  Dr. Sherman,  “looked  at 
the Federal Circuit decision in detail and [ ] has no need 
to file a revised report.”  J.A. 14895:7–9.  ZMC responded 
that their expert would like to supplement his report, to 
which  Kaneka  objected,  arguing  both  its  and  ZMC’s 
expert reports addressed the issue of active oxidation, as 
required by Kingdomway.  The district court determined 
that  ZMC  could  file  a  supplemental  expert  report  by 
July 16  and  that  Kaneka  could  respond  to  or  depose 
ZMC’s expert by August 1.  
July passed and ZMC did not submit a supplemental 
 
expert  report,  and  thus  Kaneka  did  not  respond  to  or 
depose ZMC’s expert.  Instead, on August 13, ZMC moved 
for  summary  judgment  of  noninfringement  based  on  the 
“oxidizing”  limitation.    In  its  motion,  ZMC  argued  that 
Kaneka  failed  to  show  “what  oxidation,  if  any,  of  coen-
zyme  Q10  during  ZMC’s  process  is  attributable  to  active 
oxidation above the level of passive oxidation that natural-
ly  occurs  throughout  ZMC’s  process.”    J.A. 14821.    ZMC 
also  argued  that  Dr. Sherman’s  expert  opinion  of  in-
fringement, based on the district court’s pre-Kingdomway 
claim construction of “oxidizing,” was now irrelevant and 
could not be relied on by the court.  
 
The district court agreed with ZMC’s interpretation of 
the  Kingdomway  construction,  determining  that  “oxidiz-
ing” required “some amount of oxidation, in excess of that 
which  occurs  naturally  from  exposure  to  ambient  air.”  
J.A. 48.  It interpreted ZMC’s criticism of Dr. Sherman’s 
report on the “oxidizing” limitation as a motion to exclude 
and  granted  it,  agreeing  his  opinion  was  “irrelevant” 
based  on  a  “now  incorrect”  construction.    J.A. 46–51.    It 
denied  Kaneka’s  alternative  request  to  supplement 

 
4 

  ZHEJIANG MEDICINE CO., LTD. v. KANEKA CORPORATION 

Dr. Sherman’s report.  The district court held that, based 
on the record before it, Kaneka failed to provide evidence 
that  the  oxidation  in  ZMC’s  manufacturing  process  was 
the result of ZMC’s active processes to oxidize CoQ10, as 
compared  to  passive  oxidation,  and  granted  summary 
judgment  of  noninfringement.    Kaneka  timely  appealed.  
We have jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. § 1295(a)(1).   

DISCUSSION 

For issues not unique to patent law, we apply the law 
of the regional circuit where this appeal would otherwise 
lie, which in this case is the Fifth Circuit.  LaserDynam-
ics, Inc. v. Quana Comput., Inc., 694 F.3d 51, 66 (Fed. Cir. 
2012).    We  review  evidentiary  rulings  for  an  abuse  of 
discretion.  Id.  We review decisions on motions for sum-
mary  judgment  de  novo.    Id.    Summary  judgment  is 
appropriate when, drawing all justifiable inferences in the 
nonmovant’s  favor,  “the  movant  shows  that  there  is  no 
genuine dispute as to any material fact and the movant is 
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  Fed. R. Civ. P. 
56(a); Anderson v. Liberty Lobby, Inc., 477 U.S. 242, 255 
(1986). 

A.  Claim Construction of “Oxidizing” 

At  the  outset,  Kaneka  argues  the  district  court  “im-
properly  changed”  our  construction  of  “oxidizing”  in 
Kingdomway from “some action resulting in oxidation” to 
an action that increases the amount of oxidation above a 
baseline of passive oxidation.  It argues the district court’s 
changed  construction 
it  to  erroneously  exclude 
Dr. Sherman’s  expert  report  and  grant  summary  judg-
ment of noninfringement.  We agree in part. 

led 

In Kingdomway, we held “oxidation requires an active 
step.”  790 F.3d at 1305.  We explained that “because the 
claims  affirmatively  recite  the  step  of  ‘oxidizing,’  ‘oxidiz-
ing’ cannot be interpreted as doing nothing, or to simply 
allow oxidation to occur on its own.”  Id.  This construc-

ZHEJIANG MEDICINE CO., LTD. v. KANEKA CORPORATION 

5 

tion “requir[es] active oxidation during the oxidation step 
.  .  .  but  does  not  exclude  passive  oxidation  during  other 
steps.”  Id. at 1306.2 

The  district  court  interpreted  our  construction  to 
mean “some amount of oxidation, in excess of that which 
occurs  naturally  from  exposure  to  ambient  air,  must  be 
caused by an ‘active step’ in the coenzyme Q10 manufac-
turing  process.”    J.A. 48  (emphasis  added).    This  is  not 
precise.    The  only  bounds  provided  by  Kingdomway  on 
what  constitutes  an  “active  step”  or  “active  oxidation”  is 
that  it  does  not  require  use  of  an  oxidizing  agent.    790 
F.3d at 1306.  The opinion emphasizes that there must be 
“some  action  resulting  in  oxidation”;  the  oxidizing  step 
“cannot  be  interpreted  as  doing  nothing,  or  to  simply 
allow  oxidation  to  occur  on  its  own.”    Id.  at 1305–06 
(emphasis added).  But the opinion does not state that to 
be an active step, the oxidation rate must be greater than 
that of passive oxidation.  And it is silent as to any degree 
of oxidation that would be necessary to qualify as active 
oxidation.      The  opinion  simply  requires  that  there  be 
some action that results in oxidation.  Id. at 1307. 

A review of the district court’s construction of “oxidiz-
ing”  on  appeal  in  Kingdomway  frames  the  Kingdomway 
construction.  There, the district court held that “oxidiz-
ing” required, inter alia, “active conversion of the reduced 
CoQ10  into  oxidized  CoQ10,”  which  was  supported  by  the 
specification’s  examples  using  an  oxidizing  agent  in  the 
oxidizing  step.    Kaneka  Corp.  v.  Kingdomway  Grp.  Co., 
No.  2:11-cv-02389,  2013  WL  4647299,  at *8  (C.D. Cal. 
July  24,  2013),  aff’d  in  part,  vacated  in  part,  790  F.3d 

                                            
2   The  question  whether  the  term  “oxidizing”  re-
quires  an  oxidizing  agent  was  before  the  prior  panel  of 
this court, and we are bound by their decision that it does 
not.  See id.  Thus, it is not a decision that we can review. 

 
6 

  ZHEJIANG MEDICINE CO., LTD. v. KANEKA CORPORATION 

1298.  In adopting its “active conversion” construction, the 
district  court  rejected  an  alternative  proposed  construc-
tion  that  “oxidizing”  means  “‘increasing  the  rate’  of  con-
version to oxidized CoQ10.”  Id. at *7–8.  The district court 
reasoned that “[w]ithout a baseline reference for compari-
son,  a  person  of  skill  in  the  art  cannot  know  whether  a 
rate of conversion is increased,” making such a construc-
tion “too vague to adopt.”  Id.  at *8. 

On appeal, we “agree[d] that oxidation requires an ac-
tive  step,”  but  held  “it  does  not  require  the  use  of  an 
oxidizing agent.”  Kingdomway, 790 F.3d at 1305–06.  The 
opinion  does  not  place  additional  qualifications  on  what 
must occur to be an “active step.”  And although discussed 
in  briefing  to  this  court,  see  Appellees’  Br. 46–47,  King-
domway, No. 14-1373 (Fed. Cir. Aug. 6, 2014), the King-
domway  court  did  not  require  “increased  oxidation”  “in 
excess  of  that  which  occurs  naturally  from  exposure  to 
ambient air.”  See J.A. 48. 

Against  this  backdrop,  we  consider  Kaneka’s  argu-
ments  that  the  district  court  (1) abused  its  discretion  in 
excluding  Mr. Sherman’s  expert  report  and  (2) erred  in 
granting ZMC’s motion for summary judgment of nonin-
fringement.    We  affirm  the  district  court’s  exclusion  of 
portions  of  Mr. Sherman’s  expert  report  and  vacate  the 
district  court’s  grant  of  summary  judgment  of  nonin-
fringement.   

B.  Exclusion of Dr. Sherman’s Expert Report on In-

fringement 

Kaneka argues the district court abused its discretion 
in  excluding  the  portions  of  Dr. Sherman’s  expert  report 
regarding  the  “oxidizing”  limitation  and  denying  its 

ZHEJIANG MEDICINE CO., LTD. v. KANEKA CORPORATION 

7 

alternative  request  to  supplement  its  expert  report.3    It 
argues  Dr. Sherman’s  report  sufficiently  embraces  the 
Kingdomway  construction  of  “oxidizing”  and  “plainly 
identifies and describes the action taken by ZMC during 
its  manufacturing  process  that  results  in  oxidation.”  
Appellant’s Br. 31. 

As  discussed  supra,  we  agree  with  Kaneka  that  the 
district  court  misinterpreted  the  Kingdomway  construc-
tion.  The district court required Dr. Sherman’s report to 
address  more  than  was  necessary  under  Kingdomway.  
See  J.A. 50  (criticizing  Dr. Sherman’s  report  for  not  ad-
dressing whether ZMC’s processes “actually do cause any 
amount of oxidation, beyond that which occurs naturally, 
as a result of the microbial cells’ exposure to ambient air”) 
(emphasis added).  We, thus, need not decide whether it 
would  have  been  an  abuse  of  discretion  to  exclude 
Dr. Sherman’s  opinions  regarding  the  “oxidizing”  limita-
tion  under  the  district  court’s  initial  interpretation  of 
Kingdomway.  

  We also decline to assess Dr. Sherman’s report in the 
first instance to determine the relevance of his opinions in 
light of our claim construction conclusions.  We leave that 
question, as well as the question of whether to allow one 
or  both  parties’  experts  an  opportunity  to  supplement 
their reports in response to our opinion.   

                                            
3   Kaneka also appeals several of the district court’s 
evidentiary  rulings  unrelated  to  the  court’s  grant  of 
summary  judgment.    Kaneka  argues  the  district  court 
erred  in  (1) denying  its  motion  to  compel  test  results 
relating to a different limitation; (2) excluding testimony 
regarding  that  limitation;  and  (3) excluding  testimony  of 
its damages expert.  Because these issues do not affect the 
summary  judgment  entered  by  the  district  court,  we 
decline to review them. 

 
8 

  ZHEJIANG MEDICINE CO., LTD. v. KANEKA CORPORATION 

C.  Grant of Summary Judgment of Noninfringement  
Even  without  Dr.  Sherman’s  report,  Kaneka  argues 
that ample evidence precluded the district court’s grant of 
summary judgment of noninfringement.  We agree. 

The district court determined, viewing the evidence in 
the  light  most  favorable  to  Kaneka,  that  “no  reasonable 
fact finder could conclude that the oxidation step in ZMC’s 
process  results  from  an  ‘active  step,’”  as  required  by 
Kingdomway.    J.A. 53.    It  explained,  “Kaneka  has  not 
produced  any  evidence  to  show  that  the  oxidation  levels 
would have been different, if . . . ZMC had taken no action 
at all.”  J.A. 54.  Here, the district court’s misinterpreta-
tion of the Kingdomway construction marred its analysis.  
To meet the “oxidizing” limitation, ZMC’s processes need 
not produce a “different” rate of oxidation.  There simply 
must  be  “some  action  resulting  in  oxidation.”   Kingdom-
way,  790  F.3d  at 1307.    The  Kingdomway  court  simply 
required that the oxidation occurred via an “active step.” 

Evidence  showing  that  the  oxidation  achieved  from 
ZMC’s active steps is greater than passive oxidation is one 
way  in  which  Kaneka  could  support  its  infringement 
theory—and  possibly  the  most  persuasive  way—but  this 
level  of  evidence  is  not  necessary  to  show  infringement.  
Particularly  at  the  summary  judgment  stage,  the  court 
must  focus  its  inquiry  on  what  a  reasonable  jury  could 
find,  not  what  evidence  may  be  the  most  compelling.  
Portions of the district court’s analysis appear to heighten 
Kaneka’s  burden  to  defend  ZMC’s  motion  for  summary 
judgment.  See, e.g., J.A. 53 (criticizing Kaneka’s evidence 
because “it does not show that that oxidation is, in fact, a 
result of actions by ZMC”) (emphasis added).  The district 
court’s own concessions that the evidence “might suggest 
that  oxidation  occurs”  and  “shows  that  oxidation  could 
result from ZMC’s actions” indicate that an issue of mate-
rial fact exists.  See id.  Our review of the evidence con-
firms our understanding. 

ZHEJIANG MEDICINE CO., LTD. v. KANEKA CORPORATION 

9 

Evidence  in  the  record  details  ZMC’s  manufacturing 
process  for  making  oxidized  CoQ10,  which  relevantly 
involves  washing  steps,  drying  the  wet  mass  with  com-
pressed and pneumatic air, extracting the mass, and post-
extraction washing.  Two studies conducted by ZMC show 
that  after  the  first  washing  step,  the  ratio  of  reduced 
CoQ10 to  oxidized  CoQ10 went  from  81.1%  to  26.9% (first 
study)  and  88.5%  to  55.6%  (second  study).    After  the 
drying  step,  the  same  data  shows  the  ratio  of  reduced 
CoQ10 to  oxidized  CoQ10 went  from  26.9%  to  21.3% (first 
study) and 55.6% to 18.2% (second study).  Both of these 
steps  are  active  process  steps.    A  ZMC  witness  testified 
that  the  pneumatic  drying  step  occurs  in  an  enclosed 
container.    This  evidence  collectively  raises  an  issue  of 
material  fact  concerning  whether  ZMC’s  washing  and 
drying  steps,  during  which  59.8–70.3%  of  the  reduced 
CoQ10 became oxidized, constitute “some action resulting 
in oxidation” as required by claim 22.  Kingdomway, 790 
F.3d  at 1307.    The  question  is  not  whether  these  steps 
would  have  caused  more  or  less  oxidation  than  passive 
oxidation.  The question is whether these are active steps 
resulting in oxidation.   

Claim 33  requires  the  “oxidizing”  step  be  performed 
on extracted reduced CoQ10.  The same ZMC data shows 
that after the final post-extraction washing step, the ratio 
of reduced CoQ10 to oxidized CoQ10 went from 16.7% (first 
study)  and  17.5%  (second  study)  to  0%,  meaning  the 
CoQ10 became fully oxidized.  ZMC’s expert, in discussing 
a  separate  limitation  not  at  issue  here  requiring  an  oxi-
dizing  agent,  conceded  that  a  “source  of  oxidation”  that 
occurs in ZMC’s steps is oxygen, including from “ambient 
air  dissolved  in  solutions.”    J.A. 4539  ¶ 157.    Evidence 
that (1) ZMC washes extracted reduced CoQ10, (2) oxygen 
dissolved in solutions used by ZMC is a “source of oxida-
tion,” and (3) ZMC’s CoQ10 is fully oxidized after this step 
is  complete,  raises  an  issue  of  material  fact  of  infringe-
ment. 

 
10 

  ZHEJIANG MEDICINE CO., LTD. v. KANEKA CORPORATION 

Under  the  proper  construction,  even  without  consid-
eration of Dr. Sherman’s opinions, we conclude there is a 
dispute  of  material  fact  regarding  whether  ZMC’s  pro-
cesses meet the “oxidizing” limitation in claims 22 and 33.  
The  district  court  erred  in  granting  ZMC’s  motion  for 
summary judgment of noninfringement.  

CONCLUSION 

For  the  foregoing  reasons,  we  vacate  the  district 
court’s  grant  of  summary  judgment  of  noninfringement 
and remand for further proceedings. 

VACATED AND REMANDED 

COSTS 

Costs to Kaneka. 
 

